README.md, before:

# isctl - CLI for Cisco Intersight
`isctl` is a `kubectl`-insipired CLI for the Cisco Intersight service. 

## Features

* Generated automatically from the Intersight OpenAPI v3 spec - it should be easy to keep up with new Intersight features. 
* Written in Go and distributed as MacOS, Linux and Windows binaries - should work anywhere
* Human, JSON or YAML output
* [JSONpath](https://goessner.net/articles/JsonPath/) support for extraction and transformation of the data returned from the API


# Installation

## MacOS

If you use [Homebrew](https://brew.sh), the easiest way to install `isctl` is:

```
brew install cgascoig/isctl/isctl
```

If you don't use Homebew:

* Download the latest release from the [Releases](https://github.com/cgascoig/isctl/releases/latest) page. 
* Unzip and move the `isctl` binary somewhere that is on your path (e.g. `/usr/local/bin`). 


## Windows

* Download the latest release from the [Releases](https://github.com/cgascoig/isctl/releases/latest) page. 
* Unzip and move the `isctl.exe` binary somewhere that is on your path. 

## Linux

* Download the latest release from the [Releases](https://github.com/cgascoig/isctl/releases/latest) page. 
* Extract the `.tar.gz` and move the `isctl` binary somewhere that is on your path (e.g. `/usr/local/bin`). 


# Usage

## Initial configuration

### Obtain your API Key

`isctl` interacts with the Cisco Intersight REST API, so it needs an API key. 

1. Login to the Intersight GUI. 
2. Generate a new API Key (under Settings -> API Keys). Choose "API key for OpenAPI schema version 2" as the API Key Purpose. 
3. Save the key somewhere on your desktop and make a note of the key ID. 

### Configure `isctl`

Run `isctl configure` to configure it to use your API key. Follow the prompts for your key ID and path to the key file. (Note: the path to the key file should be an absolute path and doesn't support shell metacharacters such as "`~`")

```
keyID is currently ''
Enter new keyID or press Enter to keep existing: 123456789012345678901234/123456789012345678901234/123456789012345678901234
key filename is currently ''
Enter new key file name or press Enter to keep existing: /Users/chris/intersight-key.pem
2020/06/25 17:28:22 Writing config file
```

## Querying Intersight

To retrieve resources from Intersight, use the `isctl get ...` commands. 

For example, to query all objects of a certain type:

```
isctl get ntp policy
```
Output:
```
------------  -----------------------------  ------------------------  -----------------------------
    Enabled                           Moid                      Name                     NtpServers
------------  -----------------------------  ------------------------  -----------------------------
      False       5ecb069c6275722d3143e668           test-ntp-policy

       True       5ee1aa076275722d3122a944          cg-tf-ntp-test-1       10.10.10.10, 10.10.10.12
------------  -----------------------------  ------------------------  -----------------------------
```
Notice that all objects are returned in a human-readable table. 

You can query a single object based on its MoId:

```
isctl get ntp policy moid 5ee1aa076275722d3122a944
```

Or its name:
```
isctl get ntp policy --name cg-tf-ntp-test-1
```

Output:
```
2020/06/25 17:40:04 Single result, falling back to vertical output. NOTE: this is not valid YAML; use --output yaml to get valid YAML.
Enabled: true
Moid: 5ee1aa076275722d3122a944
Name: cg-tf-ntp-test-1
NtpServers:
- 10.10.10.10
- 10.10.10.12
```
Notice that when displaying a single object, table format is not used. 

The default outputs above automatically hide many of the boilerplate attributes of the objects (e.g. `ClassId`, `Organization`, etc.). If you specify JSON or YAML as the output format all attributes will be included. For example:

```
isctl get ntp policy moid 5ee1aa076275722d3122a944 --output json
```
Output:
```json
{
  "AccountMoid": "123456789012345678901234",
  "Ancestors": [],
  "ClassId": "ntp.Policy",
  "CreateTime": "2020-06-11T03:50:32.062Z",
  "Description": "",
  "DomainGroupMoid": "123456789012345678901234",
  "Enabled": true,
  "ModTime": "2020-06-11T03:50:32.063Z",
  "Moid": "5ee1aa076275722d3122a944",
  "Name": "cg-tf-ntp-test-1",
  "NtpServers": [
    "10.10.10.10",
    "10.10.10.12"
  ],
  "ObjectType": "ntp.Policy",
  "Organization": {
    "ClassId": "mo.MoRef",
    "Moid": "123456789012345678901234",
    "ObjectType": "organization.Organization",
    "link": "https://www.intersight.com/api/v1/organization/Organizations/123456789012345678901234"
  },
  "Owners": [
    "123456789012345678901234"
  ],
  "PermissionResources": [
    {
      "ClassId": "mo.MoRef",
      "Moid": "123456789012345678901234",
      "ObjectType": "organization.Organization",
      "link": "https://www.intersight.com/api/v1/organization/Organizations/123456789012345678901234"
    }
  ],
  "Profiles": [],
  "SharedScope": "",
  "Tags": []
}
```

You can use JSONPath to filter/transform the returned data - to output just the name attribute of all the returned objects:

```
isctl get ntp policy -o yaml --jsonpath '$[*].Name'
```
Output:
```
- test-ntp-policy
- cg-tf-ntp-test-1
```

Or even to get multiple attributes from the returned objects:

```
isctl get ntp policy moid 5ee1aa076275722d3122a944 --jsonpath '$["Name","Enabled"]'
```
Output:
```
cg-tf-ntp-test-1
True
```

## Creating Intersight resources

To create resources in Intersight, use the `isctl create ...` commands. 

The attributes for the new object can be passed in as command line flags:

```
isctl create ntp policy --Name isctl-test-1 --NtpServers 1.1.1.1,2.2.2.2 --Organization default
```

Output:
```
2020/07/19 13:02:13 Single result, falling back to vertical output. NOTE: this is not valid YAML; use --output yaml to get valid YAML.
Enabled: true
Moid: 5f13b7b56275722d31133e63
Name: isctl-test-1
NtpServers:
- 1.1.1.1
- 2.2.2.2
```

The output of the `create` commands is the resource after it was created in Intersight, so the Moid, etc. are included.

You can also define the attributes of the new object via standard input:

```
isctl create ntp policy --bodyformat json
Waiting for JSON body:
{
    "Name": "isctl-ntp-test",
    "Enabled": true,
    "NtpServers": [
        "1.1.1.1"
    ],
    "Organization": {
        "Moid": "123456789012345678901234",
        "ClassId": "mo.MoRef"
    }
}
```

This is useful when you have your object defined as a JSON or YAML file, for example:

```
cat ntp_policy.json | isctl create ntp policy --bodyformat json
```

## Deleting resources

Deleting resources is quite simple if you know the Moid:

```
isctl delete ntp policy moid 123456789012345678901234
```

Or the Name:

```
isctl delete ntp policy name isctl-test-1
```

## Updating resources

Resources can also be updated by Moid or Name. For example, if you want to set the `Enabled` attribute in an NTP policy to `False`:

```
isctl update ntp policy moid 123456789012345678901234 --Enabled=False
```

Or by Name:

```
isctl update ntp policy name isctl-test-1 --Enabled=False
```

## Bulk applying configuration

You can manage (create/update/destroy) a collection of Intersight resources in bulk using the `apply` command. 

First, create your resources in a YAML file (or files) (see [here](examples) for more examples). For example, the following manages an Organization and NTP Policy:

```
ClassId: ntp.Policy
ObjectType: ntp.Policy
Name: isctl-test
Enabled: true
NtpServers: 
    - 1.1.1.1
Organization: MoRef[Name:isctl-test]
---
ClassId: organization.Organization
ObjectType: organization.Organization
Name: isctl-test
```

The order is not important - `isctl` will try to apply the individual resources in the correct order based on any dependencies between them. 

To apply (create or update) these to Intersight, run: 

```
isctl apply -f examples/ntp_and_organization/all-in-one/ntp_organization.yaml
```

You can specify individual files or you can specify a directory and all the contained YAML files will be applied automatically:

```
isctl apply -f examples/ntp_and_organization/file-per-resource/
```

`isctl` will automatically create/update each resource:

```
INFO[0001] Performing update operation on existing MO (Name: isctl-test, Moid: 60138f066972652d33286fa0, ClassId: organization.Organization)
INFO[0002] Performing create operation on new MO (Name: isctl-test, ClassId: ntp.Policy)
Apply completed successfully
```

You can also bulk destroy resources from the YAML definitions:

```
isctl apply --delete -f examples/ntp_and_organization/file-per-resource/
```

Output:
```
INFO[0000] Performing delete operation on existing MO (Name: isctl-test, Moid: 60138f386275722d31241642, ClassId: ntp.Policy)
INFO[0002] Performing delete operation on existing MO (Name: isctl-test, Moid: 60138f066972652d33286fa0, ClassId: organization.Organization)
Destroy completed successfully
```

### Specifying relationships

In the bulk YAML files or when creating/updating individual resources, there are a few ways to specify relationships between resources. 

You can set the relationship explicitly with the ClassId and Moid:

```
Organization:
  ClassId: mo.MoRef
  Moid: 123456789012345678901234
```

Or you can specify the relationship using the MoRef syntax. For example, the following will find the Organization with Name "isctl-test" and automatically fill in the Moid:

```
Organization: MoRef[Name:isctl-test]
```

There are a few variants of the MoRef syntax to allow more flexibility - the following are all equivalent to each other:

```
# if the field is a relationship, isctl will assume a bare string is the name to query
Organization: isctl-test

# explicitly specify this is an MoRef
Organization: MoRef[isctl-test] 

# explicitly specify that the field to match the destination by is Name (you can use other fields)
Organization: MoRef[Name:isctl-test]

# this is only needed where the field has a relationship to an abstract class and you need to specify which concrete class
Organization: MoRef:OrganizationOrganizationRelationship[Name:isctl-test] 
```

# Intersight Kubernetes Service

See [here](docs/iks.md) for detailed documentation on using `isctl` with Intersight Kubernetes Service. 

# Development

## How is this built?

There are a number of steps in the build process as the majority of the code is generated automatically:

1. [OpenAPITools OpenAPI Generator](https://github.com/OpenAPITools/openapi-generator) is used to generate the Go models and API client from the Intersight OpenAPI v3 spec. The OpenAPI Generator Go templates are customised to also generate an `operations.yaml` file. 
2. The Go program in `generator-postprocess` is used to parse the `operations.yaml` file and generate the command line structure in `cmd/cli.go`. This postprocess step also cleans up the command naming and creates the help text. 
3. Finally, the `isctl` command is built from the generated `cmd/cli.go` along with some supporting code. 

## Creating a release
The `Makefile` is used for most of the post processing and building `isctl` for the local system but [GoReleaser](https://goreleaser.com) is used for creating releases on GitHub. 

```
# Create tag and push to GitHub
git tag vX.Y.Z
git push origin --tags

# Create the release
goreleaser --rm-dist
```

Commit message:

Setup scoop.sh manifest and instructions

README.md, after:

# isctl - CLI for Cisco Intersight
`isctl` is a `kubectl`-insipired CLI for the Cisco Intersight service. 

## Features

* Generated automatically from the Intersight OpenAPI v3 spec - it should be easy to keep up with new Intersight features. 
* Written in Go and distributed as MacOS, Linux and Windows binaries - should work anywhere
* Human, JSON or YAML output
* [JSONpath](https://goessner.net/articles/JsonPath/) support for extraction and transformation of the data returned from the API


# Installation

## MacOS

If you use [Homebrew](https://brew.sh), the easiest way to install `isctl` is:

```
brew install cgascoig/isctl/isctl
```

If you don't use Homebew:

* Download the latest release from the [Releases](https://github.com/cgascoig/isctl/releases/latest) page. 
* Unzip and move the `isctl` binary somewhere that is on your path (e.g. `/usr/local/bin`). 


## Windows

The easiest way is using the [scoop.sh](https://scoop.sh/) installer:

```
scoop install https://github.com/cgascoig/isctl/scoop.json
```

Otherwise:

* Download the latest release from the [Releases](https://github.com/cgascoig/isctl/releases/latest) page. 
* Unzip and move the `isctl.exe` binary somewhere that is on your path. 

## Linux

* Download the latest release from the [Releases](https://github.com/cgascoig/isctl/releases/latest) page. 
* Extract the `.tar.gz` and move the `isctl` binary somewhere that is on your path (e.g. `/usr/local/bin`). 


# Usage

## Initial configuration

### Obtain your API Key

`isctl` interacts with the Cisco Intersight REST API, so it needs an API key. 

1. Login to the Intersight GUI. 
2. Generate a new API Key (under Settings -> API Keys). Choose "API key for OpenAPI schema version 2" as the API Key Purpose. 
3. Save the key somewhere on your desktop and make a note of the key ID. 

### Configure `isctl`

Run `isctl configure` to configure it to use your API key. Follow the prompts for your key ID and path to the key file. (Note: the path to the key file should be an absolute path and doesn't support shell metacharacters such as "`~`")

```
keyID is currently ''
Enter new keyID or press Enter to keep existing: 123456789012345678901234/123456789012345678901234/123456789012345678901234
key filename is currently ''
Enter new key file name or press Enter to keep existing: /Users/chris/intersight-key.pem
2020/06/25 17:28:22 Writing config file
```

## Querying Intersight

To retrieve resources from Intersight, use the `isctl get ...` commands. 

For example, to query all objects of a certain type:

```
isctl get ntp policy
```
Output:
```
------------  -----------------------------  ------------------------  -----------------------------
    Enabled                           Moid                      Name                     NtpServers
------------  -----------------------------  ------------------------  -----------------------------
      False       5ecb069c6275722d3143e668           test-ntp-policy

       True       5ee1aa076275722d3122a944          cg-tf-ntp-test-1       10.10.10.10, 10.10.10.12
------------  -----------------------------  ------------------------  -----------------------------
```
Notice that all objects are returned in a human-readable table. 

You can query a single object based on its MoId:

```
isctl get ntp policy moid 5ee1aa076275722d3122a944
```

Or its name:
```
isctl get ntp policy --name cg-tf-ntp-test-1
```

Output:
```
2020/06/25 17:40:04 Single result, falling back to vertical output. NOTE: this is not valid YAML; use --output yaml to get valid YAML.
Enabled: true
Moid: 5ee1aa076275722d3122a944
Name: cg-tf-ntp-test-1
NtpServers:
- 10.10.10.10
- 10.10.10.12
```
Notice that when displaying a single object, table format is not used. 

The default outputs above automatically hide many of the boilerplate attributes of the objects (e.g. `ClassId`, `Organization`, etc.). If you specify JSON or YAML as the output format all attributes will be included. For example:

```
isctl get ntp policy moid 5ee1aa076275722d3122a944 --output json
```
Output:
```json
{
  "AccountMoid": "123456789012345678901234",
  "Ancestors": [],
  "ClassId": "ntp.Policy",
  "CreateTime": "2020-06-11T03:50:32.062Z",
  "Description": "",
  "DomainGroupMoid": "123456789012345678901234",
  "Enabled": true,
  "ModTime": "2020-06-11T03:50:32.063Z",
  "Moid": "5ee1aa076275722d3122a944",
  "Name": "cg-tf-ntp-test-1",
  "NtpServers": [
    "10.10.10.10",
    "10.10.10.12"
  ],
  "ObjectType": "ntp.Policy",
  "Organization": {
    "ClassId": "mo.MoRef",
    "Moid": "123456789012345678901234",
    "ObjectType": "organization.Organization",
    "link": "https://www.intersight.com/api/v1/organization/Organizations/123456789012345678901234"
  },
  "Owners": [
    "123456789012345678901234"
  ],
  "PermissionResources": [
    {
      "ClassId": "mo.MoRef",
      "Moid": "123456789012345678901234",
      "ObjectType": "organization.Organization",
      "link": "https://www.intersight.com/api/v1/organization/Organizations/123456789012345678901234"
    }
  ],
  "Profiles": [],
  "SharedScope": "",
  "Tags": []
}
```

You can use JSONPath to filter/transform the returned data - to output just the name attribute of all the returned objects:

```
isctl get ntp policy -o yaml --jsonpath '$[*].Name'
```
Output:
```
- test-ntp-policy
- cg-tf-ntp-test-1
```

Or even to get multiple attributes from the returned objects:

```
isctl get ntp policy moid 5ee1aa076275722d3122a944 --jsonpath '$["Name","Enabled"]'
```
Output:
```
cg-tf-ntp-test-1
True
```

## Creating Intersight resources

To create resources in Intersight, use the `isctl create ...` commands. 

The attributes for the new object can be passed in as command line flags:

```
isctl create ntp policy --Name isctl-test-1 --NtpServers 1.1.1.1,2.2.2.2 --Organization default
```

Output:
```
2020/07/19 13:02:13 Single result, falling back to vertical output. NOTE: this is not valid YAML; use --output yaml to get valid YAML.
Enabled: true
Moid: 5f13b7b56275722d31133e63
Name: isctl-test-1
NtpServers:
- 1.1.1.1
- 2.2.2.2
```

The output of the `create` commands is the resource after it was created in Intersight, so the Moid, etc. are included.

You can also define the attributes of the new object via standard input:

```
isctl create ntp policy --bodyformat json
Waiting for JSON body:
{
    "Name": "isctl-ntp-test",
    "Enabled": true,
    "NtpServers": [
        "1.1.1.1"
    ],
    "Organization": {
        "Moid": "123456789012345678901234",
        "ClassId": "mo.MoRef"
    }
}
```

This is useful when you have your object defined as a JSON or YAML file, for example:

```
cat ntp_policy.json | isctl create ntp policy --bodyformat json
```

## Deleting resources

Deleting resources is quite simple if you know the Moid:

```
isctl delete ntp policy moid 123456789012345678901234
```

Or the Name:

```
isctl delete ntp policy name isctl-test-1
```

## Updating resources

Resources can also be updated by Moid or Name. For example, if you want to set the `Enabled` attribute in an NTP policy to `False`:

```
isctl update ntp policy moid 123456789012345678901234 --Enabled=False
```

Or by Name:

```
isctl update ntp policy name isctl-test-1 --Enabled=False
```

## Bulk applying configuration

You can manage (create/update/destroy) a collection of Intersight resources in bulk using the `apply` command. 

First, create your resources in a YAML file (or files) (see [here](examples) for more examples). For example, the following manages an Organization and NTP Policy:

```
ClassId: ntp.Policy
ObjectType: ntp.Policy
Name: isctl-test
Enabled: true
NtpServers: 
    - 1.1.1.1
Organization: MoRef[Name:isctl-test]
---
ClassId: organization.Organization
ObjectType: organization.Organization
Name: isctl-test
```

The order is not important - `isctl` will try to apply the individual resources in the correct order based on any dependencies between them. 

To apply (create or update) these to Intersight, run: 

```
isctl apply -f examples/ntp_and_organization/all-in-one/ntp_organization.yaml
```

You can specify individual files or you can specify a directory and all the contained YAML files will be applied automatically:

```
isctl apply -f examples/ntp_and_organization/file-per-resource/
```

`isctl` will automatically create/update each resource:

```
INFO[0001] Performing update operation on existing MO (Name: isctl-test, Moid: 60138f066972652d33286fa0, ClassId: organization.Organization)
INFO[0002] Performing create operation on new MO (Name: isctl-test, ClassId: ntp.Policy)
Apply completed successfully
```

You can also bulk destroy resources from the YAML definitions:

```
isctl apply --delete -f examples/ntp_and_organization/file-per-resource/
```

Output:
```
INFO[0000] Performing delete operation on existing MO (Name: isctl-test, Moid: 60138f386275722d31241642, ClassId: ntp.Policy)
INFO[0002] Performing delete operation on existing MO (Name: isctl-test, Moid: 60138f066972652d33286fa0, ClassId: organization.Organization)
Destroy completed successfully
```

### Specifying relationships

In the bulk YAML files or when creating/updating individual resources, there are a few ways to specify relationships between resources. 

You can set the relationship explicitly with the ClassId and Moid:

```
Organization:
  ClassId: mo.MoRef
  Moid: 123456789012345678901234
```

Or you can specify the relationship using the MoRef syntax. For example, the following will find the Organization with Name "isctl-test" and automatically fill in the Moid:

```
Organization: MoRef[Name:isctl-test]
```

There are a few variants of the MoRef syntax to allow more flexibility - the following are all equivalent to each other:

```
# if the field is a relationship, isctl will assume a bare string is the name to query
Organization: isctl-test

# explicitly specify this is an MoRef
Organization: MoRef[isctl-test] 

# explicitly specify that the field to match the destination by is Name (you can use other fields)
Organization: MoRef[Name:isctl-test]

# this is only needed where the field has a relationship to an abstract class and you need to specify which concrete class
Organization: MoRef:OrganizationOrganizationRelationship[Name:isctl-test] 
```

# Intersight Kubernetes Service

See [here](docs/iks.md) for detailed documentation on using `isctl` with Intersight Kubernetes Service. 

# Development

## How is this built?

There are a number of steps in the build process as the majority of the code is generated automatically:

1. [OpenAPITools OpenAPI Generator](https://github.com/OpenAPITools/openapi-generator) is used to generate the Go models and API client from the Intersight OpenAPI v3 spec. The OpenAPI Generator Go templates are customised to also generate an `operations.yaml` file. 
2. The Go program in `generator-postprocess` is used to parse the `operations.yaml` file and generate the command line structure in `cmd/cli.go`. This postprocess step also cleans up the command naming and creates the help text. 
3. Finally, the `isctl` command is built from the generated `cmd/cli.go` along with some supporting code. 

## Creating a release
The `Makefile` is used for most of the post processing and building `isctl` for the local system but [GoReleaser](https://goreleaser.com) is used for creating releases on GitHub. 

```
# Create tag and push to GitHub
git tag vX.Y.Z
git push origin --tags

# Create the release
goreleaser --rm-dist
```
