# Configuration

## Credentials

In order to communicate with the Intersight API, `isctl` uses your API Key ID and Secret Key. There are multiple ways for these to be provided to `isctl` such as environment variables, configuration file or in the command line arguments. These are the configuration items that determine how `isctl` communicates with the Intersight API:

 - Intersight API Key ID - The API Key ID generated by Intersight when a new API key is created in the UI. 
 - Intersight Secret Key - the private key component (Secret Key) of the API Key created through the Intersight UI. This configuration item can either be the path/filename of the key stored on disk (e.g. `~/intersight.pem`) or it can be the key data itself (e.g. `-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----\n...`).
 - Intersight FQDN - Fully Qualified Domain Name of the Intersight service. For SaaS this will be `intersight.com` (and this is the default if not specified) but for Private Virtual Appliance (PVA) or Connected Virtual Appliance (CVA) installations you will need to set this. 
 - Intersight Insecure - if set to **true**, `isctl` will not verify the certificate of the Intersight API service. If set to **false** (the default), the Intersight API service certificate will be verified. 

The following table shows the available configuration sources and the configuation items. The sources are listed in precedence order, from highest precedence to lowest precedence: 

Source                | API Key ID                                         | Secret Key                                         | FQDN                                   | Insecure
----------------------|----------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|---------
Command Line Flags    | `--intersight-api-key-id`                          | `--intersight-secret-key`                          | `--intersight-fqdn`                    | `--insecure`
Environment Variables | `INTERSIGHT_API_KEY_ID` or `intersight_api_key_id` | `INTERSIGHT_SECRET_KEY` or `intersight_secret_key` | `INTERSIGHT_FQDN` or `intersight_fqdn` | &lt;not supported&gt;
Configuration file    | `intersight_api_key_id`                            | `intersight_secret_key`                            | `intersight_fqdn`                      | `intersight_insecure`